# Personalized CLI DBMS: Console-Based Application for Database Operations

This project is a robust Java console-based SQL query execution application with user interaction and database management capabilities. It includes a full two-factor authentication module that uses user ID, password, and security questions and answers to strengthen login security. It also provides authentication functionality for a large number of users and uses a common Java library (such as md5) for safe password hashing. It uses a custom file format for persistently storing data, user information, and logs, eliminating the need for standard formats such as JSON, XML, or CSV by utilizing advanced delimiters that enable effective data storage and retrieval within a text file, demonstrating innovative thinking in file management techniques. The data in files at rest is encrypted along with the delimiters, making it better protected and inaccessible using this application. In addition, for security concerns, this program keeps a log of users who access the database and the queries they run, as well as a timestamp for convenience.

## IDE Information

- This application has been developed using `VSCode` as the IDE
- A basic Java project was selected as the template to start this project
- The two folders were generated by default: `src` and `bin`

## Java Information

- Java Version: `19.0.1`

## Folder Structure

The workspace contains two folders by default, where:

- `src`: the folder to maintain sources
- `bin`: the folder to maintain class files

Meanwhile, the compiled output files will be generated in the `bin` folder by default.

## General Information

- `App.java` is the default app which will run and call the subsequent classes and methods.
- All the generated files via code, will be stored in the rot directory.

## Sample SQL Queries and types

> CREATE DATABASE

- `CREATE DATABASE personDb;`

> CREATE TABLE

- `CREATE TABLE Persons (ID int NOT NULL, LastName varchar(255) NOT NULL, FirstName varchar(255) NULL, Age int, PRIMARY KEY (ID));`

> INSERT

- `INSERT INTO persons VALUES (1, 'Doe', 'John', 25);`

- `INSERT INTO persons (Id, Lastname, Firstname, Age) VALUES (1, 'Salazar', 'Jane', 29);`

> SELECT

- `SELECT * FROM persons;`

- `SELECT id, firstname, lastname FROM persons;`

> UPDATE

- `UPDATE persons SET lastname = "Wilson", age = 60 WHERE id=1;`

> DELETE

- `DELETE FROM persons WHERE id=1;`

> TRUNCATE

- `TRUNCATE TABLE persons;`

> DROP TABLE

- `DROP TABLE persons;`

> DROP DATABASE

- `DROP DATABASE personDb;`
